The point is: the key to fluency is self-awareness. A lot of
people come to
me saying that they want to learn English but they just
don't know what to do. Should I pay for a course? Should I
take private classes? Should I do it by myself? Can I do it
by myself? Should I watch TV series, listen to music, read
books? What should I do? How do I learn the language? This
is why so many people never start learning English or they
quit before they can see any real progress. This is also the
reason that some people are making a ridiculous amount of
money selling people this illusion that they have some super
secret revolutionary way of getting to fluency and they can
get you there faster than anyone else. But the real key to
fluency in any language --the real key to success in
anything-- is self-awareness. So before you take on a
difficult, time-consuming task like learning a language, you
need to know who you are, how your brain works, what you
enjoy doing and what you hate doing. Because all of these
things are going to help you determine how to approach
learning this language. There's no one size fits all
approach to learning a language. We're all different, so
what works for me might not work for you and vice versa.
That's why it kind of makes me laugh when I see the
Instagram ad or something and some guy saying, you know,
"You'll be fluent in six months if you just follow my super
special revolutionary formula for fluency." It's bullshit.
It's bullshit. There are no secrets. There's no hacks. You
don't have to do anything differently than the way you did
it the first time you had to learn a language. That's it.
And I say that so consistently and so confidently because
I'm living proof of that. I learned two foreign languages
without having to leave my house, you see what I'm saying?
And I'm gonna learn three more. I could learn six more if I
wanted to, and so could you, that's the point. If I can do
it, you can do it, your mom can do it, your friends can do
it... we can all do it. The question is, how do you learn?
That's the question here. Do you prefer to watch videos or
listen to podcasts? Do you prefer to read books or do you
prefer to write things? Are you interested in sports or
makeup and jewelry? What about music or traveling or
politics or food? You need to know what interests you
because these are the things you're gonna use to help you
learn this new thing. For example, I don't like fiction
books. I don't like fake stories, things that didn't really
happen, fantasy characters and things of that nature. I like
non-fiction, like psychology, philosophy, business, finance,
investing, things like that. So I would never use
non-fiction (fiction) books to try and learn a new language,
you see what I'm saying? I like football, so I would watch
football from another country and another language and take
notes, pick up on the terminology, the words and
expressions, the way that they speak, the way that they
speak about the game, names of players, try to learn more
about the culture and the history of those clubs because
that's interesting to me naturally, even in my own native
language. So I would use that to learn the foreign language.
I wouldn't be watching tennis or volleyball or rugby or
something like that because I'm not interested in those
things. Now, I will say once I get up to a certain level,
like intermediate, for example, I can understand a lot of
stuff, I can express myself and things like that. Or even
when I get past that to where I'm confident I can speak this
language, I can understand this language, then it is time to
start going into areas that I'm not interested in or that I
know nothing about, because that's only gonna increase my
vocabulary, my understanding of other people, different
cultures, different activities and things like that, which
will help me speak the language better, understand the
language better, and also have better conversations because
I know a little bit about a lot. So it gets a point in any
language, even your native language, where it pays, it's
very beneficial, it's very useful to know a little bit about
a lot of things, even if you're not interested at all in
those things. Because at the end of the day, what are we
using this language for? To communicate, right? To have
conversations, to make connections. So if you only know and
if you can only talk about what you're interested in, you
know, you're really closing a lot of doors of opportunity in
your life and in your world, you know what I'm saying? But
if you can just know a little bit about a bunch of different
subjects, you can talk to anybody, any time. And you never
know where that conversation is gonna lead, you see what I'm
saying? But anyway, back to the subject. What about your
teacher? What type of teacher are you looking for? What type
of classes are you looking for? Do you prefer a one-on-one
private class? Do you prefer the idea of a small group class
with a few other students? What about your teacher? Do you
prefer somebody that's gonna force you outside your comfort
zone and push you to the limit every single class? Or do you
prefer a teacher that's gonna be laid-back and let you do
things in your time and be patient and let you slowly come
out of your comfort zone? You need to know that, right? And
what type of student are you? Do you like doing homework
assignments every day, or do you find that super boring and
unhelpful? Do you prefer just to talk the entire class, or
would you like something that's prepared and more formal and
structured? Do you want to be corrected every single time
you make a mistake? Or would you prefer that your teacher
let you finish your thought before he says anything about
the mistakes that you made and how you could say things
differently? These are things that you need to consider to
get the best experience out of your classes and to get the
most progress out of your process. You also need to know
what type of person you are. Do you get bored easily? Or is
it easy for you to maintain your interest in one thing for
very long periods of time? Do you quit things easily or are
you truly dedicated to this mission that you have, which is
fluency in this language? Are you constantly trying to learn
new things? Because that's a characteristic that you need to
have if you're gonna learn something like a language. You
constantly have to be trying to learn new things, looking
for new words and phrases and expressions, not just random
stuff, but every day you need to be increasing your
knowledge, practicing your skills and learning new things.
And how much money do you have? Can you really afford to pay
a thousand dollars for some course without any real
guarantee that it's gonna help you become fluent faster or
more effectively? Do you really need to take private classes
or could you just find a language partner? Do you have the
money for private classes? How often do you want to have
class? How much can you pay and why? The point is: the key
to fluency is self-awareness. You need to know who you are
and how your brain works in order to do things that will
increase the chances that you stay committed to your mission
and that you actually make progress. Most people set
themselves up for failure because they never take the time
to understand themselves and then they try to do things that
don't come naturally to them. If they would simply change
their strategy, they would be successful. But instead they
waste their time blaming everyone and everything else for
their own failures. "It's the teacher, he's terrible." "It
was that course, it was trash." "It was my school." "It's my
education." "It's my government, it's my parents, it's my
friends." "I'm not good enough. I'm stupid. It's not for
me." "I don't want to." Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
(laughs) Don't be like the 95% of people who will waste
their lives making excuses.
Take the time to get to know yourself and understand what it
is that you need in order to thrive and be successful. I
have no doubt that it will help you achieve everything you
want in life, including being fluent in
English.